(upbeat music)
All right in this one,
we're gonna learn about clicking outside.
So checking to see if you clicked outside of an element,
which is kind of tough
so let's go ahead and do that now.
I've got these cards here.
Each card has a image of something
and has h2 and a button to learn more
and it just actually it shows us a random,
we can get a random image on each
if we append random equals, then I'm gonna use
this Text Pastry: 1 to X
and that should give us a random photo for each one.
Look at that.
Beautiful!
Now I'm just gonna write some quick CSS,
I thought I'd include this as part of it
rather than giving it to you.
So here's some style tags and we take our cards
and we'll display: grid
and we say grid-template-columns: repeat(4, 1fr)
and grid-gap is 20px.
Looking pretty good.
I'm gonna put a padding,
20px, 2rem.
Doesn't really matter.
There we go.
And now we got some horizontal scroll going on here.
So we'll grab a card image, width is 100%.
There we go.
Looking kinda responsive.
Actually maybe we should do a minmax.
(sighs)
At a minimum, I want them 150px.
At a max, I want them 1fr.
Wait, is it the other way around?
If only I had a course on CSS grid.
It's not.
Minmax,
200px.
(mouse clicking)
(groans)
You know what it is.
It's auto-fit and the size is minmax.
How do I not know that?
I actually made the course on CSS grid!
There we go.
Now we've got those looking good,
let's just put each card,
background: white,
padding: 1rem,
border-radius,
I think var vs?
(keyboard tapping)
border-radius: 2px,
card h2, color:black.
(instructor whistling)
Those are looking good, okay.
Next up what we wanna do is to create a modal.
So we've got this modal here.
Where did it go?
Up here, we have the modal-outer and the modal-inner.
We need to go ahead and style that
so let's style it in the on position
and then we'll turn it off with CSS.
So we'll go down here
and say .modal-outer
display: grid
background: rgba,
we'll make it like just very somewhat transparent.
Does that make sense?
(mouse clicking)
position: fixed.
Oh, we gotta give it a height.
100vh
and a width of 100vh.
Where is my modal?
Oh, here it is.
(mouse clicking)
And it needs a top: 0, left: 0.
Oh, width is 100vw duh.
Hey, there we go!
And this maybe needs to be a little bit higher, 0.5,
yeah, maybe even a bit more.
Good.
We could actually use hsla for that.
Why not, we just learned about it.
50%, 100%, 50%, actually these are enough.
That can be 50.
Whoa, that's almost my yellow.
Like it!
I like it!
Okay, and then we have our modal-inner
which is that one.
I'll give it a width of,
a max-width of 600px
and a min-height: 500px
background: white.
That's too high.
(mouse clicking)
Oh, and now we wanna center it so justify-content: center,
align-items: center.
I think we need a little bit of content to go inside
of this sucker.
There we go.
Need some content inside of it.
I'll put a min-width on it too.
Maybe 400px.
Looking good.
padding: 2rem,
border-radius: 5px.
All right, so now we've got this modal here
and this is a pretty common thing.
It pops up and you wanna be able to close that thing
and we've got a couple examples like this going on here
so I'm not gonna get into the close button and all that
because we'll do it again.
But I just want to show you guys like a real quick example
as to how it works.
So, now we need to hide this thing by default so (groans)
there's tons of different ways.
You could display-nunit,
you could give it a visibility='hidden',
what I like to do for CSS animations is to give it
an opacity of zero and that's not gonna cut it just yet
because even if you give it an opacity of zero,
you'll see it like I can't click on
or select any of the stuff
and that's because this modal-outer
is actually still there even though we've given it
an opacity of zero.
Like if we give it an opacity of like 0.1,
see it is technically still there so that's not good enough
but what you can do is give it a pointer-events of none.
And what that will do is it will tell the browser
just to ignore any events that come to that
and it actually will just not capture them.
That's just, it's part of,
it's kind of a cool part where JavaScript
and CSS work together.
Now, when I refresh this, you'll see that
even though that modal-inner is actually still there,
or sorry, that modal-outer is still there,
if you put an opacity of 0.5 on it,
it's actually still there but you'll see
how I can click these buttons
and events aren't being captured by that modal-outer
so that's one way to,
maybe we should put a comment there.
"Hide this modal until we need it."
And then what we'll do is we'll say when the modal-outer
has a class of visible,
or maybe not visible, open,
then we'll simply do the opposite.
We'll say opacity: 1
and pointer-events: all.
And now we can just simply go to this one
and add a class of open and it will show up.
Furthermore, I don't know why I just said furthermore
like it's a thesis or something,
we can put a transition of all,
no maybe just opacity.
opacity 0.5 seconds.
Nah, that's too long.
Two seconds.
Now watch this.
If we take this modal-outer and add a class of open,
it will kind of fade itself in
and that will fade itself out.
Cool, so, (laughs) we didn't write any JavaScript yet.
Welcome to the JavaScript course
but I thought that was worth learning
about the CSS behind it as well because if you need to build
one of these things, it's kind of a dance
between the CSS and the JavaScript.
But now let's work on clicking each of these buttons.
So every card has a button
so let's go ahead and select that.
So const cardButtons is equal
to document.querySelectorAll('.card button').
Then we will loop over each of the buttons
and listen for a click on them.
So cardButtons.forEach,
it'll take each button and will attach an event listener,
so button.addEventListener, you're gonna listen for a click,
and when that happens, we're gonna say
handleCardButtonClick.
We'll make a function before that
called handleButtonClick.
Console.log('YA CLICKED IT').
Is that gonna work, ya think?
Let's try it out.
Beauty.
Next up, we need to do is we need to grab something
to show in the modal.
I was thinking we'll grab the image
and show a higher version of it as well as
grab the data-description of the parent card.
That would be a good example.
So what we'll do here is we'll take the event,
we'll say const button is equal to event.currentTarget
(keyboard tapping)
and the card is equal to and now we need to find the card
that is associated with the button.
And now we could just say like button.parentElement
but if the button were to ever move,
if it were to ever be nested inside of something,
then it doesn't really work all that well.
So what we can do is we can say card, or no,
we take the button and we can run this closest method
and search, it's kinda like querySelectorAll
for the closest card.
And now for the console.log, the card, we should be able
to see the individual cards for that one.
There we go, looking good.
I really like that because like you can take any element.
Like, let's click on this h2 right here
and we'll say $0.closest
and we'll search for the closest div.
That will show us the card.
If we search for the closest, I don't know, html element,
and that will show us the hml
and if there's something that doesn't match it
like doesn't,
then it will return null because there is no parent of it.
So .closest is kinda like querySelectorAll
except the opposite, where it will climb up the nested tree
of DOM elements instead of looking down
the DOM tree of elements
and we're actually gonna use that once more time in here.
Then what we can do is grab the image source.
So say const imgSrc is equal to card.querySelector,
we'll search for the image
and we'll grab the source from that,
console.log(imgSrc).
(mouse clicking)
Looking good.
And const description
is equal to the card.dataset, right,
because if we wanna grab a data-description,
we use .dataset.description.
So let's go ahead and console.log the description,
make sure those are working.
(keyboard tapping)
I like it!
And then what we can do is we can populate the modal
with the new info so what we'll do is we have to grab
the modal up here because I don't need
to reselect every click.
I can select out of here.
So const modalInner is equal to
document.querySelector
modal-inner
and we'll say modalInner.innerHTML is equal to,
and we'll just use backticks here,
and I was thinking we'd do the image to the source
of the image source but I wanna replace
the 200 of, I'm just like lucky that these images
have like a 200 in them,
I wanna replace the 200 with a 600.
And then the alt will be,
I guess we could take the person's name too, hey?
So const name is equal
to card.querySelector('h2').textContent
and then we can pop their name in here.
And then below it, we'll do like a little p
or we'll use a figcaption in a future one,
let's just use a paragraph for now.
We can pop the description in there.
Finally, we wanna show the modal.
And that will be taking the outer modal,
so we'll grab another selector up here, modalOuter
and we'll say modalOuter.classList.add('open').
Is it gonna work?
Boom, it works!
We need a little bit of CSS because this is spilling out.
So we'll go here,
modal-outer,
oh, hold on.
Hi.
Hey, how's it going?
Nope.
(mouse clicking)
Oh, awesome.
That's good.
(keyboard tapping)
Oh, yeah.
We got a box of stuff.
I'm not sure if it's worth selling or not
but if we do, I'll bring it.
Okay.
We'll try drop,
wait, is it, oh, it's Friday already.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I'll see what Caitlyn's,
I'm not sure actually what the plan is for tomorrow.
I'll text dad.
(distorted speaking)
All right, sorry about that.
My mom called.
Where were we?
We had the image popping up and I fixed it
while I was talking to my mom.
So I put a width of 100% on that
so it's not filling out so good.
That is the very bare bones of a modal.
But the sort of the other thing that we need to talk about
is closing it.
So obviously, we can go here and we can make a function
called closeModal and what that will do
is it will take the modalOuter and take the classList
and remove the class of open
and we can
we can call that.
So closeModal.
Okay, it has to be open first.
Then closeModal.
Good.
But like how do you do click outside,
which means that when you click on here,
(mouse clicking)
how do you tell that you're not clicking on like this
to like select the text or right click on the image
or anything like that.
And that's
with sort of a technique called click outside
so what we'll actually do is we'll take the modalOuter
and we'll listen for a click on it
and when that happens, we'll take a look at the event.
So I guess we gotta pass the event here.
And so open it up.
Now when you click on the modalOuter, you see the event
and we can take a look at the target and the currentTarget
and you might think, "Okay, this is pretty simple."
Like I can just make it like if the modalOuter
and the is the, if they're the same thing,
then go ahead and close it.
But in my experience, modals are usually a little bit
more complex than that.
Sometimes they have elements on the outside,
sometimes you wanna listen for clicks on specific things.
So what we can do is we can actually use that closest method
that we were talking about to see if we were clicking
inside of the modalInner at all.
So we can make this console.log.
So let's make a variable called isOutside
and that will be, we'll take the event.target.closest
and we'll search for the modalInner
and what that will tell us is console.log(isOutside),
now watch this.
(mouse clicking)
"e is not defined."
Oh, it's event.
(mouse clicking)
So regardless of what you click on,
so you click on the h2, you click on the image,
or you click on the modalInner itself,
what it will do is it will look for something
that matches that selector.
So if you click on itself or anything inside of it,
it will find the modalInner.
However, if you click on something that is outside
of the inner, like the outer, or like a close button
or something like that,
then what will happen is that
it won't be able to find anything.
So what we can do is we can convert this closest
to a Boolean true or false by putting a bang in front of it
and now if it finds something, it will,
I'll show you.
If it finds something, it will be false,
if it doesn't find something, it will be true
and that gives us a nice Boolean of isOutside.
And then we can simply say if (isOutside)
modalOuter.classList.remove
('open').
(mouse clicking)
Beautiful, and now you can always click outside.
Let's hook up the escape key real quick.
Again, we'll do another modal example in the future
but we'll just say window.addEventListener('click')
let's do an arrow function here
just to comfortable with those.
We'll pass the event and we'll say if the event.key
is equal to, what is it, keycode.info,
Escape.
Escape, then do the same thing.
Or, I don't know, why are we doing this
classList.remove three times?
We have this nice little closeModal function.
Let's replace it.
Boom.
Now open it up, hit the Esc key.
(keyboard tapping)
It's not working!
All right, debug time.
console.log(event).
(mouse clicking)
All right this window, .addEvent, oh my gosh.
I'm listening for click!
That is so silly.
So key,
keydown?
Yeah, keydown.
(mouse clicking)
There we go, it works just fine.
Pretty, pretty cool.
You can turn it off now.
That's it.
I just wanna show some more sort of fun stuff.
You can take this modalInner and transform
translateY(-200%)
so now it's like way up here
like off the browser.
And we can put a transition of two seconds,
transform two seconds.
So what that will do is it will animate
the transform property over two seconds
and then we can say when the modal-outer
has a class of open,
then we wanna grab the modal-inner and change
the transform value to be zero.
Put it back where it should've been.
I think that will give us a cool little animation.
Woo!
(groans)
You see like what's going on here?
What that (grunting) part?
You know what's happening there is that the image
isn't loading yet and it's giving us a bit of an issue
so a couple things we could do to fix that
is this image here could have a width of 600
and a height of 600.
(mouse clicking)
And even if it takes a second to load,
it will, actually that's kind of a neat little thing
because as it's sliding in, it's loading
but if we still had like a slow network.
Can we turn slow network on?
Fast 3G, this is still pretty slow.
Yeah, see there?
Oh, still with the width though.
So the width is still goofy on that
so that's one option that we can do.
Obviously it's not perfect.
The other option would be to use document.createElement
to create an image and then wait for the image to load.
So listen for the load event on the image
and then run this.
So when somebody clicks it, you could show a spinner
for a second, wait for that image to load,
and then when it's loaded, put it in.
But that honestly that makes it have like a bit
of a janky experience so I actually don't really like
that experience at all because then you're maybe
sitting there waiting for the image to load
while you could be reading the text and whatnot.
So that's an option there.
We'll go into some more examples like that in the future.
That is click outside, see ya in the next one.